doc: Archive v0.16.1.1 release notes, draft v0.17 release notes (#4156)
dashpay/dash: doc/release-notes.md

> Dash Core version 0.17

Reviewer: add .0.0?

Author: done, see 9cb7e57

======================

Release is now available from:

  <https://www.dash.org/downloads/#wallets>

This is a new major version release, bringing new features, various bugfixes
and other improvements.

> This release is mandatory for all nodes.

Reviewer: We should expound further, detailing that this release includes a BIP9 style hard fork that will begin signalling on July 1st, and that any nodes that do not upgrade by the time the HF is activated will diverge from the rest of the network

Reviewer: bump?

Author: pls see 4d1c0b7

mode (value: 1) that enables a smooth transition in case InstantSend needs to
be disabled.

Statoshi backport
------------------
This version includes a [backport](https://github.com/dashpay/dash/pull/2515)
of [Statoshi functionality](https://github.com/jlopp/statoshi) which allows
nodes to emit metrics to a StatsD instance. This can help node operators to
learn more about node performance and network state in general. We added
several command line options to give node operators more control, see options
starting with `-stats` prefix.

PrivateSend rename
------------------
PrivateSend has been renamed to CoinJoin to better reflect the functionality
it provides and align with industry standard terminology. The renaming only
applies to the UI and RPCs but does not change functionality.

Build system
------------
Multiple packaged in `depends` were updated. Current versions are:
- biplist 1.0.3
- bls-dash 1.0.1
- boost 1.70.0
- cmake 3.14.7
- expat 2.2.5
- mac alias 2.0.7
- miniupnpc 2.0.20180203
- qt 5.9.6
- zeromq 4.2.3

Packages libX11, libXext, xextproto and xtrans are no longer used.

Minimum supported macOS version was bumped to 10.10.

RPC changes
-----------

> There are six new RPC commands which are Dash specific and seven new RPC

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are seven new RPC commands which are Dash specific and seven new RPC
```

commands introduced through Bitcoin backports. One previously deprecated RPC,
`estimatefee`, was removed and several RPCs have been deprecated.

The new RPCs are:
- `createwallet`
- `getaddressesbylabel`
- `getaddressinfo`
- `getzmqnotifications`
- `gobject list-prepared`
- `listlabels`
- `masternode payments`
- `quorum getdata`
- `quorum verify`
- `signrawtransactionwithkey`
- `signrawtransactionwithwallet`
- `unloadwallet`

> - `verifyislock`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `verifychainlock`
- `verifyislock`
```

- `upgradetohd`

The deprecated RPCs are all related to the deprecation of wallet accounts and
will be removed in DashCore v0.18. Note that the deprecation of wallet accounts
means that any RPCs that previously accepted an “account” parameter are
affected — please refer to the RPC help for details about specific RPCs.

The deprecated RPCs are:
- `getaccount`
- `getaccountaddress`
- `getaddressbyaccount`
- `getreceivedbyaccount`
- `listaccounts`
- `listreceivedbyaccount`
- `masternode current`
- `masternode winner`
- `move`
- `sendfrom`
- `setaccount`

> `protx register` and `protx register_fund` RPCs now accept an additional `submit` param

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`protx register` and `protx register_fund` RPCs now accept an additional `submit` parameter
```

Also, enabling wallet encryption no longer requires a wallet restart.

Sporks
------
Several spork changes have been made to streamline code and improve system
reliability. Activation of `SPORK_22_PS_MORE_PARTICIPANTS` in DashCore v0.16
has rendered that spork unnecessary. The associated logic has been hardened
and the spork removed. `SPORK_21_QUORUM_ALL_CONNECTED` logic has been split
into two sporks, `SPORK_21_QUORUM_ALL_CONNECTED` and `SPORK_23_QUORUM_POSE`,
so that masternode quorum connectivity and quorum Proof of Service (PoSe) can
be controlled independently. Finally, `SPORK_2_INSTANTSEND_ENABLED` has a new
mode (value: 1) that enables a smooth transition in case InstantSend needs to
be disabled.

Statoshi backport
------------------
This version includes a [backport](https://github.com/dashpay/dash/pull/2515)
of [Statoshi functionality](https://github.com/jlopp/statoshi) which allows
nodes to emit metrics to a StatsD instance. This can help node operators to
learn more about node performance and network state in general. We added
several command line options to give node operators more control, see options
starting with `-stats` prefix.

> PrivateSend rename

Reviewer: maybe call it a debranding?

Author: that's from https://blog.dash.org/updated-product-brief-dashcore-release-v0-17-339f739b5cfa :)

changes in the "evodb" database format. If you need to use an older version,
you must either reindex or re-sync the whole chain.

### Downgrade of masternodes to < 0.17

> Starting with this release, masternodes will verify the protocol version of other

Reviewer 3: This paragraph was for 0.16 and doesn't need to be here, correct?

### Downgrade of masternodes to < 0.17

> Starting with 0.16 release, masternodes verify the protocol version of other

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Starting with the 0.16 release, masternodes verify the protocol version of other
```

--------------------------------
This version of Dash Core includes multiple optimizations to the network and
p2p message handling code.

We reintroduced [Intra-Quorum Connections](https://github.com/dashpay/dips/blob/master/dip-0006.md#intra-quorum-communication)
which were temporary disabled with the introduction of
`SPORK_21_QUORUM_ALL_CONNECTED`. This should make communications for masternodes
belonging to the same quorum more robust and improve network connectivity in
general.

FreeBSD and MacOS machines will now default to the new `kqueue` network mode
which is similar to `epoll` mode on linux-based. It removes most of the CPU
overhead caused by the sub-optimal use of `select` in the network thread when
many connections were involved.

Wallet changes
--------------
Upgrading a non-Hierarchical Deterministic (HD) wallet to an HD wallet is now
possible. Previously new HD wallets could be created, but non-HD wallets could
not be upgraded. This update will enable existing non-HD wallets to upgrade to
take advantage of HD wallet features. Upgrades can be done via either the debug
console or command line and a new backup must be made when this upgrade is
performed.

> Users can now load and unload wallet dynamically via RPC and GUI console.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Users can now load and unload wallets dynamically via RPC and GUI console.
```

> It's now possible to have multiple wallets loaded at the asme time, however only

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's now possible to have multiple wallets loaded at the same time, however only
```

one of them is going to be active and receive updates or be used for sending
trasactions at a specific point in time.

> Also, no wallet restart is required on wallet encryption anymore.

Reviewer 3: Maybe re-word to something like this?
```suggestion
Also, enabling wallet encryption no longer requires a wallet restart.
```

Sporks
------
Several spork changes have been made to streamline code and improve system
reliability. Activation of `SPORK_22_PS_MORE_PARTICIPANTS` in DashCore v0.16
has rendered that spork unnecessary. The associated logic has been hardened
and the spork removed. `SPORK_21_QUORUM_ALL_CONNECTED` logic has been split
into two sporks, `SPORK_21_QUORUM_ALL_CONNECTED` and `SPORK_23_QUORUM_POSE`,
so that masternode quorum connectivity and quorum Proof of Service (PoSe) can
be controlled independently. Finally, `SPORK_2_INSTANTSEND_ENABLED` has a new
mode (value: 1) that enables a smooth transition in case InstantSend needs to
be disabled.

Build system
------------
Multiple packaged in `depends` were updated. Current versions are:
- biplist 1.0.3
- bls-dash 1.0.1
- boost 1.70.0
- cmake 3.14.7
- expat 2.2.5
- mac alias 2.0.7
- miniupnpc 2.0.20180203
- qt 5.9.6
- zeromq 4.2.3

Packages libX11, libXext, xextproto and xtrans are no longer used.

Minimum supported macOS version was bumped to 10.10.

RPC changes
-----------
There are six new RPC commands which are Dash specific and seven new RPC
commands introduced through Bitcoin backports. One previously deprecated RPC,

> estimatefee, was removed and several RPCs have been deprecated.

Reviewer 3: Maybe?
```suggestion
`estimatefee`, was removed and several RPCs have been deprecated.
```

The new RPCs are:
- `createwallet`
- `getaddressesbylabel`
- `getaddressinfo`
- `getzmqnotifications`
- `gobject list-prepared`
- `listlabels`
- `masternode payments`
- `quorum getdata`
- `quorum verify`
- `signrawtransactionwithkey`
- `signrawtransactionwithwallet`
- `unloadwallet`
- `verifyislock`
- `upgradetohd`

The deprecated RPCs are all related to the deprecation of wallet accounts and
will be removed in DashCore v0.18. Note that the deprecation of wallet accounts
means that any RPCs that previously accepted an “account” parameter are
affected — please refer to the RPC help for details about specific RPCs.

The deprecated RPCs are:
- `getaccount`
- `getaccountaddress`
- `getaddressbyaccount`
- `getreceivedbyaccount`
- `listaccounts`
- `listreceivedbyaccount`
- `masternode current`
- `masternode winner`
- `move`
- `sendfrom`
- `setaccount`

> `protx register` and `protx register_fund` rpcs now accept additional param

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`protx register` and `protx register_fund` RPCs now accept an additional `submit` param
```

> `submit` which allows to produce and print ProRegTx-es without relaying them

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
which allows producing and printing ProRegTx-es without relaying them
```

to the network.

Also, please note that all mixing-related RPCs have been renamed to replace
“PrivateSend” with “CoinJoin” (e.g. `setprivatesendrounds` -> `setcoinjoinrounds`).

> Please check `help <command>` in rpc for more information.

Reviewer 3: Original wording a little confusing. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
Please check `help <command>` for more detailed information on specific RPCs.
```

Command-line options
--------------------
Changes in existing cmd-line options:

New cmd-line options:
- `-dip8params`
- `-llmq-data-recovery`
- `-llmq-qvvec-sync`
- `-llmqinstantsend`
- `-platform-user`

> - `-statsenabled`

Reviewer 3: Is this the first release that includes the statoshi stuff? Might be worth mentioning in the release notes.
